{
  "hero": {
    "title": "HTTP and HTTPS Monitors Overview"
  },
  "title": "HTTP and HTTPS Monitors Overview",
  "summary": "How uptime monitoring works for HTTP and HTTPS monitors and getting to know the advanced HTTP monitoring options",
  "url": "/support/kb/synthetic-monitoring/uptime-monitoring/http-and-https/http-and-https-overview",
  "translationKey": "https://www.uptrends.com/support/kb/http-and-https/http-and-https-overview",
  "sectionlist": false
}

{{< callout >}} **Note:** The **HTTP** monitor type is no longer available for new users. Uptrends extended the functionality of **HTTPS** monitors to cater to and check the availability of HTTP websites. {{< /callout >}}

The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) and Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS) monitors are among the uptime [monitor types]({{< ref path="support/kb/basics/monitor-types" lang="en" >}}) you can easily set up in no time. These monitors behave similarly, allowing you to check the availability of websites based on HTTP and HTTPS requests.

These monitors run basic checks on your `http://` and `https://` websites from designated [Checkpoints]({{< ref path="support/kb/synthetic-monitoring/checkpoints/" lang="en" >}}) worldwide. These basic checks include verifying the website's response status codes, page load time, and loading of content resources. That said, the HTTP and HTTPS monitors simply retrieve requested resources from the website. Its primary concern is to have an error-free response from the web server and confirm that your page is up and running. For more information, see [How an HTTP monitor works]({{< ref path="/support/kb/synthetic-monitoring/uptime-monitoring/http-and-https/how-an-http-monitor-works" lang="en" >}}).

If you want to have in-depth monitor checks to measure the performance and system uptime of your website accurately, Uptrends recommends using a [Full Page check]({{< ref path="/support/kb/synthetic-monitoring/browser-monitoring" lang="en" >}}). For more details, refer to the [Basic checks versus Full Page check or Real-browser checks]({{< ref path="support/kb/synthetic-monitoring/monitor-settings/basic-webpage-checks-versus-real-browser-checks" lang="en" >}}) knowledge base article.

## Set up an HTTP or HTTPS monitor

There is a minimal difference between setting up the Uptime HTTP monitor versus HTTPS monitors. As the HTTPS monitor is an extended and secured version of HTTP, this monitor includes an additional check to verify SSL certificate errors. To configure this setting, go to the {{< AppElement type="tab" >}} Advanced {{< /AppElement >}} tab of your monitor editor screen and check the **Check SSL certificate errors** checkbox option.

Enabling this option allows your HTTPS monitor to validate that the SSL certificate does not generate any errors. Only uncheck this option to ignore issues generated by your SSL certificate. If you wish to monitor your SSL certificates in-depth, refer to the [SSL certificate monitor type]({{< ref path="support/kb/synthetic-monitoring/uptime-monitoring/ssl-monitors" lang="en" >}}) to run further checks.

To create your own HTTP or HTTPS monitor, refer to [Adding an HTTP or HTTPS monitor]({{< ref path="/support/kb/synthetic-monitoring/uptime-monitoring/http-and-https/http-monitor-add" lang="en" >}}) knowledge base article.

## Advanced HTTP settings

To further customize your monitor setup, go to the {{< AppElement type="tab" >}} Advanced {{< /AppElement >}} tab of your HTTP or HTTPS monitor and configure the following:

- [User agent]({{< ref path="/support/kb/synthetic-monitoring/monitor-settings/user-agents-and-real-browser-checks#what-is-a-user-agent" lang="en" >}}) 
- Authentication — if the HTTP resource you are monitoring requires authentication as part of the HTTP request, choose the appropriate Authentication type (None, Basic authentication, NTLM (Windows) authentication, and Digest authentication) accordingly. Enter your credentials in the **Username** and **Password** fields. Note that Uptrends always [encrypts]({{< ref path="/support/kb/synthetic-monitoring/monitor-settings/encryption-and-your-websites-security" lang="en" >}}) your data for protection.
- Custom HTTP request fields — configure the **HTTP method** (GET/POST), **HTTP request headers**, **Check SSL certificate errors**, and **TLS version(s)** options. To know more details, refer to this [knowledge base article]({{< ref path="/support/kb/synthetic-monitoring/uptime-monitoring/http-and-https/monitoring-websites-other-than-the-production-server" lang="en" >}}).
