{
  "hero": {
    "title": "API version 4"
  },
  "title": "API version 4",
  "summary": "Our 4th version of the Uptrends API lets you manage and modify Multi-step API and transaction monitors. Our newest version, the API will continue to grow.",
  "url": "/support/kb/api/v4",
  "translationKey": "https://www.uptrends.com/support/kb/api/v4"
}

Uptrends API version 4 is a growing set of API endpoints and methods that help you get information from your monitoring setup. Ensure that you've already [registered an API account]({{< ref path="/support/kb/api/authentication-v4#registeraccount" lang="en" >}}) to make API calls.


## Accessing API v4 using Swagger

All Uptrends API methods are available on the [Uptrends OpenAPI (Swagger) page](https://api.uptrends.com/v4/swagger). This page describes all API methods in detail and lets you execute each method individually.

You can use our Swagger specification and Swagger Codegen to generate client code and integrate the Uptrends API in your scripts or applications. To learn more about Swagger and Swagger tools, visit [Swagger.io](https://swagger.io).

## Endpoints

The following API endpoints are currently supported:

### Register API

The first step you have to take before using the other methods in this API is to register an API account. For more information, see[Authentication]({{< ref path="/support/kb/api/authentication-v4" lang="en" >}}) for detailed steps to register an account and how authentication works.


### Monitor API

The Monitor API contains methods for managing monitor definitions. For more information, see [Monitor API documentation]({{< ref path="/support/kb/api/monitor-api" lang="en" >}}).

### MonitorCheck API

The MonitorCheck API contains methods for accessing raw monitor check data for each individual check. For more information, see [MonitorCheck API documentation]({{< ref path="/support/kb/api/monitorcheck-api" lang="en" >}}).

### Monitor Group API

The Monitor Group API contains methods for adding, updating, and deleting monitor groups and operations within monitor groups (such as  starting and stopping all monitors). For more information, see [Monitor Group API documentation]({{< ref path="/support/kb/api/monitorgroup-api" lang="en" >}}).

### Operator API

The Operator API contains methods for adding, updating, and deleting operators. An operator represents a user in an Uptrends account. You can use this API to automate user management in your account. Aside from managing these user logins and settings for each individual operator (including language and communication settings), this API also lets you manage the off-duty schedules for each operator. For more information, see [Operator API documentation]({{< ref path="/support/kb/api/operator-api" lang="en" >}}).

### Operator Group API

The Operator Group API contains methods for adding, updating, and deleting operator groups. You can organize operators into groups to set the same behavior, access rights, and alert settings. The Operator Group API also lets you create off-duty schedules for all operators in a group. For more information, see [Operator Group API documentation]({{< ref path="/support/kb/api/operator-group-api" lang="en" >}}).

### Alert API

The Alert API contains methods for managing alerts. For more information, see [Alert API]({{< ref path="/support/kb/api/alert-api" lang="en" >}}).

### Alert Definitions API

The Alert Definition API contains methods for managing alert definitions. For more information, see [Alert Definition API]({{< ref path="support/kb/api/alert-definition-api" lang="en" >}}).

### Vault API

The Vault API contains methods for adding, updating, and deleting items from your vault, vault sections and corresponding authorizations. For more information, see the [Vault API documentation]({{< ref path="/support/kb/api/vault-api" lang="en" >}}) and the [Vault]({{< ref path="/support/kb/account/vault" lang="en" >}}).

### Checkpoint API

The Checkpoint API contains methods to let you retrieve information about the Checkpoint locations or servers that perform the actual monitoring. The Checkpoint server information includes IPv4 and IPv6 addresses that you can use for whitelisting in your firewall. For more information, visit [Swagger documentation for the Checkpoint endpoints](https://api.uptrends.com/v4/swagger/index.html?url=/v4/swagger/v1/swagger.json#/Checkpoint).
